now to the refugee crisis in
Europe
where two more countries have
tightened
their borders Denmark announced
today
that its instituting I D checks
on its
frontier with Germany this after
Sweden
enacted a strict new border
policy the
moves further erode the 20
year-old
Schengen Agreement which is
supposed to
guarantee free movement of
people and
goods across most of mainland
Europe
from the Danish capital
Copenhagen
special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant
reports midnight at Copenhagen
Airport
Station the last stop before
Sweden and
security guards begin to check
the
identities of those traveling
across the
bridge linking the two countries
Sweden
insisted on new controls warning
transport companies they risked
heavy
fines if undocumented travelers
were
allowed through passengers
dismount from
Sweden bound trains to have
their papers
scanned was along fence between
the
tracks to stop people from
trying to
escape the checks trust my
government
huge responsibility within
Europe and
with the refugees so that we
cannot take
anymore it's a huge huge
backward step
because we doing is a free
country and
everyone should come and even if
they
need help they should be getting
it here
or where they can it's just
believed you
living in a foreign country
free
work
precisely 12 hours later
Denmark's Prime Minister Lars
loekke
Rasmussen responded by
announcing
controls along the border with
Germany
the Danish measures will
initially be in
place for 10 days but the
government
warmed the procedures could be
extended
through PBS Newshour Prime
Minister you
think that you are going to
contribute
to a crisis further down the
line and
other countries in the rest of
Europe
and perhaps beyond i think is
pretty
obvious that we are in a
situation if
the European Union country
checked the
external borders you will see
more and
more and more countries which
would be
forced into introducing
temporary
internal border control there's
something we need to take very
seriously
because it will have a negative
impact
on prosperity I'm a true
believer of the
freedom of movement this is not
a happy
moment at all we have invested
billions
in infrastructure between Sweden
and
Denmark we have invested
millions in
international branding of the
greater
Copenhagen region so this is a
step
backwards between the
Christensen a
senior official of the human
rights
group Amnesty International is
concerned
that other nations along the
refugee
trail back to Greece will now
follow
suit at a time when migrants who
aren't
from Syria Iraq and Afghanistan
has
stranded what we're seeing today
is to
Sweden is desperately trying to
get the
rest of Europe to actually face
up to
its responsibilities if there is
a
European response to this crisis
the can
be a solution that can at least
be a way
of distributing the the burdens
and to
help people who are in desperate
need of
of protection Christensen is
particularly worried about the
long-term
impact on Turkey Lebanon and
Jordan
which have taken in many more
refugees
than the one million also
entered you
Europe over the past year we
continue to
see what is happening today and
that is
the majority of countries trying
to
shirk their responsibilities
trying to
avoid helping then we will see a
build
up of more and more problems and
more
more refugees and the pressure
on the
local areas on the on the
neighboring
countries which they are not
able to
bear in any way shape or form
and that
happens in those countries start
to
implode better and we'll see a
refugee
problem that will make what we
have
today look like nothing at all
but the
most pressing concern for
Michael run
drop is an economic one he
represents
15,000 people who live and work
in the
cross border region and commute
between
Denmark and Sweden their lives
have
suddenly become more complex and
disrupted some of the pages says
that
this is a new iron curtain and
other
Penn Jersey City New Berlin Wall
in the past 20 years businessman
to
Edmond has lived in Sweden where
homes
and cars are cheaper and worked
in
Copenhagen but he's now
contemplating
moving to Denmark
and is that we have an external
border
controls and now suddenly that
seems to
be breaking down and each
country's
erasing the inner borders so so
so the
whole european community in the
old
corporation cross border seems
to be
challenged dialogue so that's
that's
where I saw the impact of the
changes
also being built north of
Copenhagen on
the main ferry route linking
Denmark and
Sweden which is in competition
with the
bridge the ferry company feels
the cost
of implementing the new measures
will
cost at least three million
dollars a
year chief executive Henry has
complained to the European Union
about
Sweden's action Stockholm to pay
compensation in New York wants
to reach
the idea I'm quite sure that
american
will hopefully not I mean what
we need
now is the European leaders who
should
respond to this I mean we have
been
pushing and pushing for European
solution so this is a clear
signal that
Europe now needs to take
decisions which
can protect the external borders
sanctions have been greeted with
disappointment in Germany which
along
with Sweden has welcomed most
refugees
during this crisis the German
Foreign
Ministry spokesman described
freedom of
movement as the European Union's
greatest achievement but he
warned that
the Schengen area was in danger
he said
it was crucial that common
solutions
were found to the migrant flow
but
throughout this crisis national
interest
has taken priority over european
unity
today's developments reinforce
that
trend the PBS Newshour a marked
improvement in Copenhagen